[Sobs]
[Item clatters]
♪
You know, I got somebody ready
to take us back home.
It's a pilot
with a plane back in Paris.
Bonne chance.
It means good luck.
My friends...
[Speaking French]
I met a guy.
His name is Codron.
Daryl: He helped
you find me?
Tell Dixon
I did it for the boy.
Just make sure he's okay,
that he knows
♪
Carol: Try it again.
Daryl?
Go ahead and rev it.
♪
Daryl.
Huh?
Try it one more time.
[Engine sputtering]
You're right.
It's fried.
♪
Are you okay?
Yeah.
♪
Guess we're walking.
[Gunfire in distance]
♪
[Indistinct conversations
in distance]
♪
Man: God. My God.
Fallou: Huh?
[Indistinct conversations]
♪
[Sighs]
Losang?
♪
What are you gonna tell him
about Isabelle?
Well, the truth,
I guess.
Mm.
Least he's coming back
with us.
I got that
to say to him.
Yeah.
Hey, you're friend...?
Ash.
Ash, right.
Me bringing the kid back,
that wasn't part of the plan.
Is he gonna be alright
with that?
Sure. Once I explain
things to him.
You know, it's probably better
if I talk to Ash alone.
He's not gonna be that
comfortable with you at first.
He knows you were looking
for me, though, right?
Well, it's just that he's lived
alone all this time.
It's his first time
out in the world.
He's nervous.
Don't want him
to overreact.
Look around.
This place ain't safe.
No, really.
You know, I got it.
You don't need to take
any dumb risks.
How do you think
I found you?
Nah, I'm coming.
Okay, look. Look.
What I said to him
to persuade him
to do this whole thing...
I embellished some facts.
You lied?
You could say.
You, uh, tell him
I'm your brother or something?
No, nothing like that.
Nah, I'm coming.
You do all the talking.
Oh, at least
let me get in front.
Ow.
♪
Jesus.
Looks like Ash
has been busy.
♪
Ash, it's Carol.
Wait, wait.
♪
Ash?
Are you here?
♪
Ash?
[Sighs]
Hey. Over here.
[Growls]
Is that guy still alive?
Where's Ash?
The man that was here--
where is he?
♪
The man.
What happened to the man?
♪
He never come back.
What were you doing here?
♪
We came to find a plane.
Je vous en supplie.
Tuez-moi.
♪
Carol:
What's he saying?
♪
Please.
You kill me?
♪
You kill me, please.
I got this.
♪
[Grunts]
[Walker growling]
♪
[Growling stops]
[Walkers growling]
[Panting]
♪
Yes.
[Engine sputtering]
[Grunts]
[Growling]
♪
[Walkers growling]
[Grunts]
[High-pitched tone]
♪
[Growling continues]
Carol:
Do you think these folks
are gonna be able
to help us find Ash?
Yeah, I hope so.
He's not like us.
He's gentle.
What, you got the hots
for him or something?
No. I like him, though.
He's a really good
person.
Not easy to find
these days.
What was that lie
you told him?
What was that about?
Told him I was looking
for...
my daughter.
Sophia?
I don't even know
where it came from.
I was just searching
for a reason,
thinking about you,
everything we'd been through,
all the loss,
and I just...
♪
Maybe I do know
where it came from.
Nadine: Bonjour.
Hi, Nadine.
Yeah.
Daryl, you made it.
♪
Daryl.
There he is.
♪
You're back.
[Sighs]
You okay?
Yeah.
Carol from
the Commonwealth, right?
That's right.
♪
I prayed for you
and Judith and RJ
and Ezekiel.
I've heard a lot
about you.
♪
Where is Issa?
[Sighs] I gotta talk to you
for a second.
♪
We heard
Genet was dead,
but we were unsure
it was true.
It's true.
♪
Maybe now
it will be safer here.
I hope so
for all of you.
How about this friend
you're looking for?
What do you know?
♪
He must be in trouble.
She's with my mother now.
♪
Yeah.
She died protecting you.
That's what she wanted.
♪
Like Sylvie...
...and the sisters.
That's right.
♪
It's a terrible thing
to think of...
♪
...the world
without them in it.
♪
Yeah.
Yeah, it is.
♪
Issa loved you.
She told me.
♪
You know,
Isabelle and I were talking
about the three of us
going back to America.
We could still do that
together.
♪
Carol has a friend
who has a plane.
♪
We just got to find him,
and then we'll do that.
Alright?
♪
Do you think
that someday
this will all be over?
And we'll be able
to do normal things?
We'll be able to go to school
with other kids.
♪
See a movie.
Ride a bike.
♪
[Exhales sharply]
There was-- we have
something like that back home.
Hell, I'll teach you
how to ride a bike.
♪
I don't think so.
I should stay here,
and you should go back
where you belong.
♪
That's what
you always wanted.
I was wrong.
That's not what I want.
♪
Hell, it's not
what you want, either.
♪
It's different now.
Why?
Why is it different?
Because I feel at peace here.
♪
Hm.
Don't be sad.
I'm happy here.
And you'll be happy, too,
when you go back home.
♪
You sure?
Good night.
♪
[People conversing
in French]
♪
[Man singing in French]
[Children laughing]
♪
Ready to go?
Where are we going?
To look for Ash.
Alright.
Wanna talk about it?
No.
You mind if I do?
I know you really
wanted him to come,
and I know he's not
and that sucks.
And I'm really sorry.
I let him down.
I can't really blame him.
So, what,
he's getting back at you?
I probably deserve it.
I mean, I'm here,
she's not. Right?
And now you're replaying
every decision...
...thinking of everything you
could have done differently.
It's a pretty long list.
You and me both.
The past just become
one big, giant hole of what-ifs.
Why us?
You and me?
Why did we get to go
so far?
Luck? Hm.
Bad luck, maybe.
It's kind of hard
to tell the difference.
Carol?
Hey.
It won't be easy
tracking down your friend.
A stranger out there
alone for that long--
what are the chances
you find him alive?
I found him alive.
What are the chances of that?
Come on, man.
You know where to look.
There's still only one place
to go for information.
Yeah, I'm not
too popular there.
What place is that?
[ "Lady Marmalade" plays]
♪
Welcome to the Demimonde.
♪ Hey, sister, go sister
♪ Soul sister, flow sister ♪
♪ Hey sister, go sister,
soul sister, go sister ♪
Woman: * He met Marmalade
down in old New Orleans ♪
[Speaking French]
♪
Bonjour.
Tu veux que je te
fasse kiffer?
♪ You wanna give it a go?
No, I'm good.
Thank you.
♪ Gitchie, gitchie,
ya-ya, da-da ♪
Et toi?
Mm?
♪ Gitchie, gitchie,
ya-ya, here ♪
♪ Mocha Chocolata, ya-ya
Dépaysant?
Hm?
Yeah.
[Men grunting]
♪
Come on.
Genet's men?
♪
I'm guessing not anymore.
That's her
right there.
♪
♪ Creole Lady
Marmala-a-a-a-de ♪
Daryl Dixon.
I heard you were dead.
Not yet.
♪
Make yourself at home.
Alright.
♪
Hey.
[Cheers and applause]
♪
Daryl: Love what you've done
with the place.
Loosened up the rules.
♪
Rules are so British.
People wanna be free.
Especially French people.
♪
Quinn never
understood that.
I mean,
some of his men did.
♪
Others needed
a little convincing.
Hey. Good job.
Shh.
[Laughs]
♪
You're very popular
with the Guerriers.
When the queen dies,
the bees scatter with the honey.
And who are you, exactly?
She's a friend of mine.
Oh.
Another friend.
♪
What happened
to the last one? The nun.
♪
She died.
And the boy?
Somewhere safe where no one
can find him or hurt him.
I did what I had to
with Quinn.
♪
I'm sorry for any, um,
what do you call it?
Collateral damage.
Well, you can make it up to us.
♪
We're looking
for someone.
Another American.
♪
Whoa, you people
are everywhere.
How exactly did you
come to France?
♪
Does it matter?
Not to me,
but you show up around the same
time an airplane landed West of
the city.
Be careful.
Some people will do anything
for a way out.
♪
Yeah,
we'll keep that in mind.
In fact, I hired a few men
to track it down.
♪
They never came back.
What about our friend?
♪
I'll put out the word.
What is it?
♪
[People conversing in French,
laughter]
♪
This red one.
Where did it come from?
Juliette.
Maison Mère.
It's not
what it used to be.
Nothing left,
from what I hear.
♪
We're gonna need a car.
And weapons.
♪
Mmm.
Uh...
No.
♪
[Speaks French]
Put your guns down.
♪
[Brakes squeak]
[Engine shuts off]
♪
No guards.
Yeah, I noticed.
♪
You okay?
Just thrilled to be back.
Yeah.
Yeah, good times.
[Walkers growling]
Don't be alarmed
by the Guerriers.
They're brothers and sisters
united in our cause.
But the message will
be lost without the boy.
Laurent is the chosen one.
He needs to be protected.
We're hoping he's here.
We sent Laurent to you,
at the Nest.
He was taken from us.
Lured away by the American.
Then you must help find him.
Make preparations.
We go out at once.
We split into groups
to cover more of the city.
Come on, let's go.
♪
[Speaks French]
[Speaking French]
♪
[People conversing in French]
[Walkers growling in distance]
♪
I'll check in here.
[Snarling]
Get off that.
♪
Daryl: It's in America.
I went out
looking for something,
and all I found was trouble.
If I don't make it back,
I want them to know I tried.
Hell, I'm still trying.
Hey.
[Tape recorder clicks]
I found something.
♪
Okay.
[Walkers growling]
You see him?
No.
No, he's not here.
Maybe he was never here.
Maybe we're in
the wrong place.
♪
Come here.
Look at that.
♪
[Walkers growling]
There's got to be
something alive in there.
Come on.
[Growling continues]
♪
[Grunts]
Dixon is faithful
only to himself.
He wants to go home.
Wants to go back
to his world.
If he takes the boy,
what becomes of ours?
Fallou:
Daryl wants to save Laurent.
You want to make him
a martyr.
[Scoffs] Look.
♪
Look at how we have to hide
from the hungry ones.
On the rooftops.
In the cellars.
♪
Our children,
all they've known is fear.
[Walkers growling]
♪
You ready?
[Whistles]
And what of their children?
The living cower.
[Gun cocks]
♪
The numbers dwindling,
the dead flourishing,
the natural order of things
twisted and perverted
beyond comprehension.
Some people believe the world
has ended,
that God is also dead.
♪
That is why we must find him.
The world must see
that God is still here
and the boy is proof.
That's what faith is.
If you need proof,
you've already lost it.
♪
[Growling continues]
[Grunts]
♪
[Sighs]
Ash. Ash.
♪
You made it.
You're gonna be okay.
[Growling continues]
Doesn't look okay.
Who's that?
Don't worry. We're gonna
get you out of here.
I'm gonna get you out.
♪
[Growling continues]
[Walkers growling]
It's probably
just a concussion.
Dehydrated. I don't think
anything's broken.
[Growling continues]
How many rounds
you got left?
♪
One.
We gotta get back
to the car.
[Grunting]
♪
[Groans]
Got any ideas?
Not any good ones.
How about battery?
We got any battery left?
♪
[Chiming]
Yeah, but this thing's
not moving.
We just need
to crack a window.
♪
[Growling continues]
[Grunts, snarling]
♪
[Grunts]
[Walkers growling]
[Growling stops]
[Snarling in distance]
[Walkers snarling]
♪
[Snarling stops]
[Panting]
♪
[Groans]
Where's Sophia?
♪
Let's get you
out of here.
♪
[Walkers growling]
Daryl: Come on.
♪
Finish this water.
I'll get you some more, okay?
I don't know
about this thing.
You really think
this is gonna get us home?
Got us here.
How much fuel
we need?
Added to what we have,
50 gallons should get us
all the way back home.
Alright.
Can I talk to you
for a second?
Mm?
You know, you should
tell him the truth.
I just want him to get healthy
before I break his heart.
Why her, though?
Why don't you just lie
about something else?
Had to be convincing.
I made up something
that I wished was true.
And...
he lost his son.
Ah.
Got it.
Why don't you get him
ready to fly?
I'll go find some fuel.
Alright?
Yeah?
Yeah.
♪
[Singing in French]
♪ Talkin' 'bout
my g-g-g-generation ♪
[Singing in French]
♪
Hey.
Can I talk to you
for a minute?
Back so soon?
♪
Come on.
I've got a present
for you.
♪
Hey.
You alright?
Yeah.
♪
What are you doing here?
We came here
looking for you.
Losang came to the camp.
Now Genet's dead,
he has some of her people
behind him.
So I brought him here.
♪
Thank you.
I owe you one.
♪
What about
everyone else?
They alright?
Yeah.
Losang is only interested
in one thing.
♪
I need your help.
Again?
♪
People are gonna talk.
Come on.
Smile.
I can get you the fuel
that you need.
♪
Thanks.
I appreciate it.
I'm not doing it
for you.
Max, load him up with as much
ethanol as he can carry.
Not sure we have enough
to just give it away.
I'm sorry.
It sounded like you were trying
to express an opinion.
♪
Didn't think so.
Faster.
Theo?
♪
So you'll take the boy
with you?
♪
That's the plan.
There'll be another Genet
before long.
♪
Laurent will be safer
in America.
♪
At least you guys
don't fall for fascists.
♪
Student becomes the master.
I take it
she's not coming.
♪
She didn't make it?
No.
There was nothing you could do,
halfway across the world.
If you wanna
talk about it--
No.
♪
I'm sorry.
I'm...
so sorry.
For what?
♪
All of it.
It's so easy for us
to blame ourselves.
♪
During the days that
I spent waiting for you,
I just got to thinking
how this trip...
♪
...helped me.
It helped you?
♪
Get past the guilt
I've been carrying about Avi.
♪
Coming here with you
just forced me to overcome it.
♪
Live again.
You did that for me,
Carol.
♪
[Breathes sharply]
I'm only sorry
it didn't end better for you.
♪
[Indistinct conversations]
[Laughter]
♪
You should come
with us.
I wanna stay
at the camp.
It's not safe
Fallou will find
a new place.
And I have friends there.
You can find friends
anywhere.
where we're going.
There's kids there.
Carol's there.
I'm there.
I can't come with you.
Why?
I don't want to.
Explain it to me.
I just can't.
Why not?
Because I don't
want you to die.
♪
The sisters,
Isabelle, Sylvie--
they're all gone
because of me.
♪
Everybody.
Everybody I love dies.
That's not true.
It has nothing to do
with you.
[Clattering, indistinct talking]
Anna:
Williams. Williams.
♪
Let's go, everyone.
Come with me.
Quickly.
Come on,
grab your stuff.
Will you distract them
for me? Okay?
♪
This way.
Come on. Go.
♪
You must be
the hope guy.
Where are they?
Poof.
In thin air.
Is that so?
Uh-huh.
You believe in miracles, right?
♪
Losang.
[Speaks French]
♪
Losang: Dixon?
Laurent:
Monsieur Codron?
Daryl: Yeah.
Alright.
♪
Alright,
which way now?
They're coming.
[Men speaking French
in distance]
Alright, let's split up.
Come on.
♪
I need you to do something
for me, alright?
♪
Come on, get in.
You stay here till I come
back and get you, okay?
What if you don't
come back?
Hey.
When has that ever happened?
♪
You turn it off.
We're gonna get through
this, okay?
♪
[Man shouts in French]
[Gunshot]
[Men speaking French]
♪
[Man grunting]
[Speaks French]
♪
[Gunshot, man grunts]
[Breathing heavily]
♪
[Gunshot, man grunts]
[Man grunting]
[Man gagging]
♪
Damn.
[Grunting]
♪
Come on. Let's go.
Come on.
♪
This way.
I don't think you can get
any cleaner than that.
Should get
some more rest.
Eh, little activity
will be good for me.
After being stuck in
a car for two days.
I really appreciate
you making this trip for me.
I'm glad you feel like
it was worth it.
The thing is, uh...
...I lied.
I didn't come here
looking for Sophia.
I came here
to look for Daryl.
♪
What are you saying?
Sophia died 12 years ago.
No, you--
you said that--
No, I know--
I know what I said.
It's not like that.
What's it like, then?
It's like
she never went away.
I never let her go
because I never
forgave myself.
I think you get that.
I know that we share
that feeling.
And, lately, that feeling
has gotten worse.
And when I met you...
...I told you what I needed to
to convince you to help me.
So that makes it alright?
It's not an excuse.
Oh.
Just an explanation.
I really hope your therapy
is going well.
♪
I know how terrible
this is.
It's not
just that you lied.
It's--
It's the lie itself.
I mean,
using your dead daughter
to manipulate me.
What kind of person
does that?
A really desperate one.
I'm sorry.
I believed in you.
Don't you get that?
I gave up everything.
I gave up my world.
I gave up my home,
my memory of Avi.
But you said before
that--
Oh, you think the end
justified the means?
No. Whatever was happening
between us,
every moment of comfort
or bonding
or whatever the fuck
you wanna call it,
it was Goddamn
fucking meaningless.
The pain was real.
The grief, it--
Oh, come on.
It was all based in a lie.
Your lie to get
my fucking plane!
God damn it!
♪
Ash.
Don't.
♪
[Wrench clanks]
Thank you.
You are always welcome
in the Demimonde.
Okay?
[Clicks tongue]
[Engine idling]
Alright. You ready?
To go where?
To America.
I told you,
I'm not going.
Look, I know what you said,
but I think you got it wrong.
You blame yourself.
I get it.
That's what kids do.
But you got to let go of
the things that scare you.
Isabelle wanted you to go.
I want you to go.
♪
But you got to make up
your own mind.
♪
What's it gonna be?
Okay.
Good.
Go get your shit.
Let's go.
♪
Looks like the future.
Yeah, sure does.
♪
There it is.
You ever see
one of these before?
No only in books.
Up in the clouds,
we'll be close to Issa
and Sylvie
and my mother.
Yeah.
They'll watch over us.
♪
How'd it go?
Not so good.
♪
You feeling
any better?
♪
Who is this?
That's Laurent.
This is Ash.
This is his plane.
Hey. Pleased to make
your acquaintance.
I've never flown
in a plane before.
Ash is gonna be
the one flying us home.
Yeah, well,
one small hitch.
This plane will never get off
the ground with all four of us.
♪
So, Paris,
we have a problem.
♪
I help you find the boy,
I get the plane.
I'm gonna
get you home,
even if it means
me staying behind.
We got to go right now.
Aah!
♪
Come on.
[Gunshot]
♪
We keep going.
That's what we do.
Carol:
Daryl, are you okay?
Yeah.
I guess we're walking.
♪
Zabel:
Episode five is called
"Vouloir, C'est Pouvoir.
It means "where there's a will,
there's a way,"
and it's a little bit of a play
on "pouvoir"
because "pouvoir des vivants,"
which means
"power of the living,"
is the name of the movement
that Genet has been leading
for years.
And also it plays just
to Daryl's relentless need
to find
and get to Laurent.
Especially with Isabelle gone.
Nothing else matters to Daryl
but the boy.
Levi: Codron decided
to go to the roof camp.
First of all,
he wants to help them.
He had time to think in jail,
you know, and he had time
to understand
that he was on the wrong side.
Zabel: Codron started
to sort of make a switch
at the end of season one,
and now what we see is
that he's a man
who's really reckoning
with himself,
and he has that beautiful scene
with Laurent
where he gets into that whole
explanation about his brother
and why he was angry at Daryl.
Levi: There is
a very beautiful connection
between Codron and Laurent.
Scigliuzzi: Laurent,
he sees the good in Codron.
He has faith in him 'cause, you
know, everyone can be redeemed.
Levi:
This child is special.
And Codron felt that
at the end of the first season.
And now they meet again,
and he's more than grateful
about what this child did.
He saved his life,
but more than this, he saved
his direction of life.
So he opened his heart
in a way.
[Growling]
♪
Man: Hi. Okay.
Hi.
So we're doing Ash
running from the zombies,
and then he gets in
and now one gets to the door
and tries to bash it.
Two more zombies.
And that's
when he gets his head hit.
Daryl: Come here.
Look at that.
There's got to be something
alive in there.
Come on.
Dayal: Being surrounded by all
of those zombies
in that SUV over there
felt very claustrophobic.
And also kind of reminded me of,
um, getting a car wash.
The choreography of
that scene was pretty amazing.
Nicotero:
Today we have 80 walkers.
There's traditional walkers,
the rotted crazy ones,
and then we have a lot
of freshly turned ones
because the sequence
requires a lot of people
that have died recently.
So there's not a ton
of prosthetics.
It's more pale paint job
and some veins and bite wounds
and splattered blood and stuff.
[ Speaks French ]
Okay, next shot.
Today is going to be
very challenging
because we have a lot
of special effects.
We're literally tearing
zombies apart,
having the car covered in blood
as Daryl and Carol
effect their escape.
Got any ideas?
Not any good ones.
Nicotero: The tranquilizer darts
are filled
with this concoction.
Daryl knows what the result
of an injection
with this material is.
So he's creating little
Tasmanian Devil zombies
so that these two particular
walkers can diminish the threat
by tearing any unsuspecting
walker in its vicinity
from limb to limb.
McBride: I like the suspense
and the quiet calm.
You're just wondering,
waiting for something to strike,
and you don't know
where it's going to happen.
Man: One!
Two.
Three!
[Growling]
My favorite moment
from that day
was how much fun we had
with the amount
of dead bodies on the ground.
She's not in the scene,
Norman. [Laughs]
I mean, there was, like,
hundreds of dead bodies,
and it was super sticky,
super bloody.
[Laughing]
And being inside this car
with the windows
and smashing up
against the windows
and everyone's panicking.
I was like, "Oh. You're back."
McBride:
You see Daryl and Carol
working together again
in tandem,
which is something
that I missed,
and I was really,
really happy to shoot that.
[indistinct conversations]
Losang: Dixon is
faithful only to himself.
Man: Daryl wants to
save Laurent.
You want to make him
a martyr.
The Losang/Daryl opposition,
which we see playing out
starting in episode one, even,
is sort of these
two father figures
that represent different ways
of being
and different ways
of seeing the world.
Daryl's influence on the boy
is not good for the Nest,
and it's not good
for what they believe
and what they want
the boy to become.
And so Daryl's influence
on Laurent is dangerous to them.
♪
De la Fuente: I'm not
a martial arts practitioner.
And so, you know, I had done
all this preparation on my own
about other aspects, things from
the text and everything else.
But the show got me in touch
with a man named Leo Tamaki,
who is a very accomplished,
wonderful martial artist
and aikido master,
and then working
with Seb, the stunt coordinator,
and all the people
in his great department
and the amazing stunt double
I have.
To their credit, they were like,
you know,
"We want you to do
as much of this as you can.
We think you can do it."
And so, you know,
I had this great opportunity
to do this huge fight.
Shooting the final fight scene
with Norman.
One of the unusual things
about it
is we're shooting
so out of order.
So you have to prepare
yourself to die
months before you're
going to finish the job.
♪
There's an inevitability
to Losang's end,
and it's tragic because
he really does love the boy.
He really does have faith
that there is a higher purpose
to humanity,
and that it's humanity's
job to follow that path.
He just, in the end,
took the wrong path.
♪